---
layout: post
title: "Website Project"
desc: "francisco"
categories: prj
---

You can view the actual website right <a href="http://taz.harding.edu/~khuggins/website/">here</a>, and the source is <a href="https://github.com/kjhx-hw/website">here on GitHub</a>.

This website is about `francisco`, the same CSS framework it was built with. I built francisco so that I'd have a unified style system to base the rest of the websites we'd build this semester off of. Unfortunately, we never built another website again until the final project, [Twister](#), so I scrapped *this* framework and wrote another, simpler one that worked better for what we actually do in class. You can read more about that one [here](/~khuggins/site/git/sharing-grund.html).

### Animating the background
The thing I got the most compliments on was how the background image fades in when you load up the site. This was actually the simplest part of the website – the animation is pure CSS. My background element is in a `div` named `.jumbotron` – I have it in a separate `div` so that I can place it behind the rest of the page. The CSS for this whole element is:
```
.jumbotron {
        display: table;
        background-color: #000;
        background-image: url(media/ales-nesetril.jpg);
        background-size: cover;
        background-position: center;
        height: 100vh;
        width: 100%;
        -webkit-animation: fadein 4s; /* this line is important! */
      }
```

The important part (for the animation) is the `-webkit-animation` tag. It's important to remember that this will only work on WebKit based browsers – however, McCown only requires that this work in Chrome, as per the rubric. This tag contains the name of the animation (`fadein`). The name can be anything you want – I'm using `fadein` to maintain readability. The next piece is the length of time to perform it (`4s`). After this `.jumbotron` definition, we also have to define the `fadein` animation that we just referenced. Here's what mine looks like:
```
@-webkit-keyframes fadein {
            from { opacity: 0; }
            to   { opacity: 1; }
        }
```

Here, I define `fadein` as a type `@-webkit-keyframes` and then instruct the browser to translate it from an opacity of 0% to an opacity of 100%. And there you have it – your background now fades in from the background! If you want an easier way to animate different elements of your pages, I'd highly recomend using [animate.css](https://daneden.github.io/animate.css/) by [@daneden](https://github.com/daneden).

### Animating link effects
Small touches make a huge difference in the overall feel that your website communicates to the user. One of the ways I do that here is by using "soft" link decoration on all my links. The most obvious way this is used in my project is in the navbars – the default color is grey, and when hovered over they fade up to flat white. This short animation is pure, glorious CSS. Here's how it's done:
```
a, a:visited {
  color: #ef5350;                   /* the normal color */
  text-decoration: none;
  transition: color .15s ease-in;   /* length of animation */
}

a:hover { color: #ff867c; }         /* the color it fades to */
```

Don't forget to include `text-decoration: none;` – it removes the default underline behavior for links. There are [a bunch](https://codemyui.com/tag/link/) of fascinating effects you can add to links (and just about any other element for that matter) with pure CSS – when used properly, they can have a huge impact on the user experience of the site!

### On using CSS frameworks
Firstly, if you want to use francisco, *I cannot recommend it*. I wrote it in a week, the documentation isn't the best, and I haven't really touched it since I finished this project. It is a very sparse toolkit that was written for a very narrow scope of use cases. Additionally, it doesn't work well in FireFox, but we don't talk about that. If you want to use a CSS framework, here are a handful that I recomend:
* [Basscss](http://basscss.com)
* [Skeleton](http://getskeleton.com)
* [Tachyons](https://tachyons.io)
* [Spectre](https://picturepan2.github.io/spectre/)
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com)

### Static site generators
A website like this one repeats itself a lot. Every page has the same `<head>`, the same navbar, the same footer, you get the point. Making a change to one of these parts of your website means that you have to go manually change every other page in your site – it's a huge pain. Enter the Static Site Generator, a better way to build static websites. This makes it incredibly easy to build websites that have a lot of repetitive content. In fact, the website you're reading right now was written on one called [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com). It allows me to build a website in pieces – I can create set HTML shards for things such as headers or footers and then I can have Jekyll put that together with my content and generate a consistent website that is ready to use. This object-y method of building websites makes it far easier and far quicker to build large websites like this one.

Unfortunately, we never built another static website in this class. From here on out, it'll be one-pagers that test your understanding of specific programming concepts. A tool like Jekyll is no good when all you're building is a single page. However, if you have time to master tools like Jekyll, it can make building websites far more enjoyable in the future!
